# Introductions of R and Python for Data Analysis 

The repository containts the collections of notes, summary, and other materials from each of RPyId's meeting.
It is a twice a month meeting organized for local Indonesian community in Tokyo Institute of Technology to learn together about how to use *R* and/or *Python* for translating the experimental data.
Most of introductory parts are inspired by lectures from [The Carpentries](https://carpentries.org/).
For advance participants, we can suggest implementations on some examples from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/).

**Tutors and Organizers**
1. Felix Salim
2. Mia Fitria Utami
3. Pande Putu Erawijantari

## Directories
### Notes
Notes collections for each meeting
*About file format in `./Notes` directory:* 
* .ipynb : generated by `jupyter notebook`, you can download/clone to run the code in your `jupyter notebook`
* .Rmd : raw Rmarkdown file, you can download/clone to run the code in your `Rstudio`
* .md : rendered Rmarkdown file into markdown format for easier reading

### Share_Practice
Participants are welcome to upload own project here. How to? (Let's update again with better organizations later)
- Create directory with your name inside of `./Share_Practice`
- Organize your project inside that directory (notes, scripts, raw data are welcome!)
- Share with others!

The raw live coding by tutor during the meeting also will be deposited here in the `./Share_Practice/Live_coding`.

## 1stMeeting-Getting started with R and Python

Date: November 9, 2019

Time: 02:00 pm - 05: 00 pm

Venue: Midorigaoka 6 1st Floor, Tokyo Institute of Technology

Notes were placed at `./Notes/20191109_RPyID1st` contains the introductions slide (by tutors **Erawijantari** and **Felix**) and notebook of live coding (by **Jordy Trilaksono**).
Source of hands-on: <http://swcarpentry.github.io/r-novice-inflammation/01-starting-with-data/index.html>

## 2ndMeeting-Let's make it functional part 1: R series
Date: November 30, 2019

Time: 02:00 pm - 05: 00 pm

Venue: Midorigaoka 6 1st Floor, Tokyo Institute of Technology

Notes were placed at `./Notes/20191130_RPyID2nd` contains the exercise for creating functions, applying functions to multiple datasets, and starting with dataframe for introductions to the next meeting.

## 3rdMeeting-Data is beautiful part 1 - Hello Tidyverse!
Date: December 15, 2019

Time: 10:00 am - 01:00 pm

Venue: Midorigaoka 6 1st Floor, Tokyo Institute of Technology

Notes: `./Notes/20191215_RPyID3rd` contains about introduction of tydiverse and hands on on data wrangling in R.

## 4thMeeting-Data is beautiful part 2 - visualizations with ggplot2: R series
Date: January 12, 2020

Time: 01:00 pm - 04: 00 pm

Venue: Midorigaoka 6 1st Floor, Tokyo Institute of Technology

Notes: `./Notes/20200112_RPyID4th` contains visualizations of data from 3rd meeting using ggplot


## 5thMeeting-Statistical Fundamental: R series
Date: February 01, 2020

Time: 02:00 pm - 05: 00 pm

Venue: Midorigaoka 6 1st Floor, Tokyo Institute of Technology

Notes: `./Notes/20200201_RPyID5th` (introductions of library for fundamental statistical inference in R)


## 6thMeeting-Let's make it functional part 2: Python series

Date: **TBA**

Time: **TBA**

Venue: Midorigaoka 6 1st Floor, Tokyo Institute of Technology

Notes: **TBA** (Introductions of numpy and data wrangling with pandas, posibly a litle bit visualizations using searborn/matplotlib)


## 7thMeeting-Data is beautiful part 3 - visualizations with matplotlib and/or seaborn : Python series

Date: **TBA**

Time: **TBA**

Venue: Midorigaoka 6 1st Floor, Tokyo Institute of Technology

Notes: **TBA** (Playing with matplotlib and/or seaborn, we will use kaggle example here)


## 8thMeeting-Data explorations with Python
Date: **TBA**

Time: **TBA**

Venue: Midorigaoka 6 1st Floor, Tokyo Institute of Technology

Notes: **TBA** (Mostly trial using [scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/)).

## Optional
9. Introductions to UNIX and command line scripting
10. Introductions to Git for code documentations 
11. Basic programing for genomic data analysis (overview and practice; probably 2 parts) : Life science outsider are welcome! 
12. ...
13. ...


